The form had the DELETE method, and this method is not supported by html forms; therefore, I changed the DELETE method to POST method, which is recognized by browsers and it also sendsinformation securely through the request body instead of the URL (GET method).

The password field was hidden using the class ".hidden-password", so it was not visible but still present in the page, so this is not really secure. I fixed by adding "type=pasword", that way users can see the password field and their input is marked when typing. I also added the "required" attribute to make sure the password field is not empty.

I added validation rules to each field to prevent empty or nonsense data. The username field now uses 'required', 'minlength', 'maxlength'. Also, I added 'pattern' so it only accepts letters, numbers, and dashes. The password field is now type="password" with required and minlength="8" to make it hidden and strong. The age field uses type="number" with limits from 1 to 120 to avoid unrealistic values. The email field is type="email" and 'required' to ensure a valid format like “name@example.com”. The message field includes 'required' and maxlength="200" 
to keep the text short and meaningful. With these updates, I keep the form safer, cleaner, and also 
more user-friendly.

I have added a 'patern in the email field to check a valid structure and 'maxlength=254' to keep the standard for email addressses. With these improvement I prevent fake, incomplete, or malformed emails and ensure users provide proper email format.

All labels and input names match correctly, so there is no need to change or correct anything here. Labels and input names must match to ensure accurate data submission and proper user accesibility. With the 'for' and 'id' user can focus on the right field, and the name attribute is for the server to recognize values correctly. Placeholders are give users hints about what information they must type in each field; these feature and 'autocomplete' make the form more user friendly. 

All input fields in the form have 'types' to improve validation. For example, 'type=number' is used for the age field to ensure the browser accepts only numeric values, no texts; this way we can avoid data errors and user experience is better.

I modified the CSS file (styles.css) to ensure that input fields fit inside the form container; this improves the visual user experience.

I used the ':invalid' and ':valid' selectors to give the form a red border (if input do not meet requirements) or green border (if input meet requirements). Then, I modified the ':invalid' selector rules by adding ':not(:Placeholder-shown); this rule prevents fields form showing red borders at the beginning, and only alert users after typing info to prevent and avoid confusion. 

Previously, I had added an event listener to display an alert in the browser when user enter more than 10 words in the textarea field; howerver, it seemed to me a better user experience to see that message directly inside the form. For that reason, I decided to discard the alert and instead, I used a paragraph element (<p></p>) inside the form; here the function changes the <p> text and send a message using 'setCustomValidity()' JavaScript method.

I have added a 'fieldset' and 'legend' to provide better appeareance and structure, and improve accesibility. This way the form is easy to read and understand, and in general, it looks more professional. 

If this project were a live production form, I would add server-side validation, input sanitization. HTTPS encryption, and error loging to protect data beyond client side validation. The main goal is to guarantee the integrity, confidentiality and reliability of data, and also guarantee a friendly user experience, all while we prevent errors and vulnerabilities.


✍️ Ethical Integrity Declaration:
I, Gretchen Albornoz, affirm that all work submitted in this case study is my own. I have not used AI tools, AI-generated text, or AI-based writing assistants (such as ChatGPT, Gemini, Grammarly AI, etc.) in the creation of this assignment. I understand that using AI tools for this project violates the spirit of ethical learning and may result in academic consequences.
Signed: GA     Date: 11/8/2025